### The following two questions do not necessarily have a specific right or wrong answer, thus the how and why are important. What type of class or OOP programming structure would make sense to use in the following scenarios? How and Why?

#### You are building an open source application framework, to handle sessions you would like to use Memcache by default but allow others to create modules for other session handling services.

At a high level, the first question to answer is whether or not your application framework is going to implement a service-oriented approach (a la Symfony, AngularJS, etc) with dependency injection (using base classes, interfaces, and an injector), or a more traditional model-view-controller approach with simpler inheritance that provides the provider-specific code within those class definitions instead of configuration files (a la CodeIgniter2, CakePHP, etc)? A service-oriented approach could provide better unit test coverage, and provides the most flexibility for the users of your application framework. However, it also demands a much higher level of understanding of application development (i.e., dependency injection can seem like "magic" to a lot of developers) than a more rigid framework, so you may end up with fewer users, so it depends on the goal of the project. 

As for what would make sense in PHP in 2017, a service-oriented architecture is best. According to this 2015 survey (https://www.sitepoint.com/best-php-framework-2015-sitepoint-survey-results/), Laravel and Symfony2 have as many users as the next five frameworks combined. A service-oriented architecture allows for the best balance of unit testing, distribution, and usage. However, if your specification is simple and does not demand that extreme level of modularity, there is no reason to over-engineer the problem.

#### You have many classes which need to share some methods, some of these classes already extend another unrelated class, some do not.

I am a little confused by this question. Can I get some additional detail or an example of what is being requested?
