### You have a Mysql table with 500 Million rows. The structure is the following:

```
CREATE TABLE `buildings` (
    `id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `name` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
    `type` enum('Highrise','Lowrise','Retail','Industrial') NOT NULL,
    `city` varchar(100) NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8
```

### A sample query that would often need to run on the database is `“SELECT * FROM posts WHERE type = ? AND city = ? LIMIT 5000”`. Would you add an index or indices to this table other than the primary index? What are the pros and cons of doing so?

Should this query be `SELECT * FROM buildings`, or is there a relationship between the `posts` and `buildings` tables that is not reflected here?

Assuming the example query should be done on the `buildings` table, I would eliminate the enumerated type field in favor of a `building_type` table with a foreign key reference and add an index to the `city` column if the table is read-heavy and not write-heavy.

### Assuming there are no other related tables or different querying scenarios, do you think mysql is an optimal approach here? Why or why not and what might an alternative be?

No. Enumerated type fields are difficult to change in a table of this size (for instance, adding a new type like 'Multi-family' would be a long-running query). Frankly, enumerated type fields are not even that useful to begin with, lookup tables are better. However, the best solution here would be a NoSQL datastore like MongoDB. That way, you would not have to pre-define the types ever, just collect the data.
